# Azure AI Search

Azure AI Search provides a cloud-based solution for indexing and querying a wide range of data sources, and creating comprehensive and high-scale search solutions. It provides the infrastructure and tools to create search solutions that extract data from structured, semi-structured, and non-structured documents and other data sources.

With Azure AI Search, you can:

- Index documents and data from a range of sources.
- Use AI skills to enrich index data.
- Store extracted insights in a knowledge store for analysis and integration.

Azure AI search has many applications, including:

- Implementing an enterprise search solution to help employees or customers find information in websites or applications.
- Supporting retrieval augmented generation (RAG) in generative AI applications by using vector-based indexes for prompt grounding data.
- Creating knowledge mining solutions in which the indexing process is used to infer insights and extract granular data assets from documents to support data analytics.

## 1. Extract data with an indexer

At the heart of Azure AI Search solutions is the creation of an index An index contains your searchable content and is created and updated, unsurprisingly, by an indexer.

## 2. Enrich extracted data with AI skills

The enrichment pipeline that is orchestrated by an indexer uses a skillset of AI skills to create AI-enriched fields. The indexer applies each skill in order, refining the index document at each step.

### Built-in skills

Azure AI Search provides a collection of built-in skills that you can include in a skillset for your indexer. Built-in skills include functionality from Azure AI services such as Azure AI Vision and Azure AI Language, enabling you to apply enrichments such as:

- Detecting the language that text is written in.
- Detecting and extracting places, locations, and other entities in the text.
- Determining and extracting key phrases within a body of text.
- Translating text.
- Identifying and extracting (or removing) personally identifiable information (PII) within the text.
- Extracting text from images.
- Generating captions and tags to describe images.

### Custom skills

You can further extend the enrichment capabilities of your index by creating custom skills. As the name suggests, custom skills perform custom logic on input data from your index document to return new field values that can be incorporated into the index. Often, custom skills are "wrappers" around services that are specifically designed to extract data from documents. For example, you could implement a custom skill as an Azure Function, and use it to pass data from your index document to an Azure AI Document Intelligence model, which can extract fields from a form.

## 3. Search an index

The index is the searchable result of the indexing process. It consists of a collection of JSON documents, with fields that contain the values extracted during indexing. Client applications can query the index to retrieve, filter, and sort information.

Each index field can be configured with the following attributes:

- `key:` Fields that define a unique key for index records.
- `searchable:` Fields that can be queried using full-text search.
- `filterable:` Fields that can be included in filter expressions to return only documents that match specified constraints.
- `sortable:` Fields that can be used to order the results.
- `facetable:` Fields that can be used to determine values for facets (user interface elements used to filter the results based on a list of known field values).
- `retrievable:` Fields that can be included in search results (by default, all fields are retrievable unless this attribute is explicitly removed).

## Persist extracted information in a knowledge store

While the index might be considered the primary output from an indexing process, the enriched data it contains might also be useful in other ways.

Azure AI Search supports these scenarios by enabling you to define a knowledge store in the skillset that encapsulates your enrichment pipeline. The knowledge store consists of projections of the enriched data, which can be JSON objects, tables, or image files. When an indexer runs the pipeline to create or update an index, the projections are generated and persisted in the knowledge store.
